<div class='assignmentContainer' id='Homework 11' sub-name='Convex programming, probability basics' due='2023-11-13' grading-notes-link='https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1Oh9izQEHtjGOerpUPB5PG122vDJ0KKPP?usp=sharing'>
<div>
1. (3pts)* Consider the following convex programming problem

     $$
     \begin{align*}
     \max && -2x_1 - (x_2 - 3)^2 & \\
     \st  && x_1 &\geq 3 \\
          && x_2 &\geq 3
     \end{align*}
     $$

     If SUMT were applied to this problem, what would be the unconstrained function $P(\x, r)$ to be maximized at each iteration?

1. (6pts)\* Consider the linearly constrained convex programming model

   $$
   \begin{align*}
   \max && 8x_1 - x_1^2 + 2x_2 + x_3 & \\
   \st  && x_1 + 3x_2 + 2x_3 &\leq 12 \\
        && x_1,x_2,x_3 &\geq 0
   \end{align*}
   $$

   Starting from the initial trial solution $(x_1, x_2, x_3) = (0, 0, 0)$, apply two iterations of the Frank-Wolfe algorithm.

1. (6pts) After further research, Wyndor Glass Co no longer believes their profit estimates are reasonable. Due to current market conditions, they expect significant diminishing returns for batches produced, such that the profit attained for a given production level is best estimated as

   $$
   3\ln(2.5x_1 + 1) + 5\ln(2.3x_2 + 1)
   $$

   a. With the current profit estimates, what would be Wyndor's profit per batch for producing 1, 2, or 3 batches of product 1?
   b. With the current profit estimates, what would be Wyndor's profit per batch for producing 1, 2, or 3 batches of product 2?
   c. Using Python and your modeling language of choice (and using all other assumptions from the base Wyndor LP model), model this problem as a nonlinear programming problem with continuous (not integer) decision variables. What is the company's maximum weekly profit?

1. (4pts)\* A cube has its six sides colored red, white, blue, green, yellow, and violet. It is assumed that these six sides are equally likely to show when the cube is tossed. The cube is tossed once.
   a. Describe the sample space.
   b. Consider the random variable that assigns the number 0 to red and white, the number 1 to green and blue, and the number 2 to yellow and violet. What is the distribution of this random variable (i.e. what values can it take and with what probabilities)?
   c. Let $Y = (X + 1)^2$, where $X$ is the random variable in part b. Find $\E{Y}$.

1. (1pt) Suppose that two six-sided dice are thrown, and the dice are fair (so that any of the numbers 1-6 are equally likely to come up on any roll). Let $X$ be the random variable equal to the product of the two rolls. Find $\prob{X=36|X\geq30}$.

</div>
</div>
