<div class='assignmentContainer' id='Homework 13' sub-name='Queueing theory' due='2023-12-04' grading-notes-link=''><div>

1. (3pts)\* Midtown Bank always has two tellers on duty. Customers arrive to receive service from a teller at a mean rate of 40 per hour. A teller requires an average of 2 minutes to serve a customer. When both tellers are busy, an arriving customer joins a single line to wait for service. Experience has shown that customers wait in line an average of 1 minute before service begins.
   a. Describe why this is a queueing system.
   b. Determine the basic measures of performance - $W_q$ , $W$, $L_q$, and $L$ - for this queueing system. (Hint: We don’t know the probability distributions of interarrival times and service times for this queueing system, so you will need to use the relationships between these measures of performance to help answer the question.)

1. (3pts)\* You are given two queueing systems, $Q_1$ and $Q_2$. The mean arrival rate, the mean service rate per busy server, and the steady-state expected number of customers for $Q_2$ are twice the corresponding values for $Q_1$. Let $W_i$ be the steady-state expected waiting time in the system for $Q_i$, $i=1, 2$. Determine $W_2/W_1$.

1. (4pts)\* Consider a queueing system with two types of customers. Type 1 customers arrive according to a Poisson process with a mean rate of 5 per hour. Type 2 customers also arrive according to a Poisson process with a mean rate of 5 per hour. The system has two servers, both of which serve both types of customers. For both types, service times have an exponential distribution with a mean of 10 minutes. Service is provided on a first-come-first-served basis.
   a. What is the probability distribution (including its mean) of the time between consecutive arrivals of customers of any type?
   b. When a particular type 2 customer arrives, she finds two type 1 customers there in the process of being served but no other customers in the system. What is the probability distribution (including its mean) of this type 2 customer’s waiting time in the queue?

1. (4pts)\* Customers arrive at a single-server queueing system in accordance with a Poisson process with an expected interarrival time of 25 minutes. Service times have an exponential distribution with a mean of 30 minutes. Label each of the following statements about this system as true or false, and then justify your answer.
   a. The server definitely will be busy forever after the first customer arrives.
   b. The queue will grow without bound.
   c. If a second server with the same service-time distribution is added, the system can reach a steady-state condition.

1. (6pts)\* The Friendly Neighbor Grocery Store has a single checkout stand with a full-time cashier. Customers arrive randomly at
   the stand at a mean rate of 30 per hour. The service-time distribution is exponential, with a mean of 1.5 minutes. This situation has resulted in occasional long lines and complaints from customers. Therefore, because there is no room for a second checkout stand, the manager is considering the alternative of hiring another person to help the cashier by bagging the groceries. This help
   would reduce the expected time required to process a customer to 1 minute, but the distribution still would be exponential.

   The manager would like to have the percentage of time that there are more than two customers at the checkout stand down below 25 percent. She also would like to have no more than 5 percent of the customers needing to wait at least 5 minutes before beginning service, or at least 7 minutes before finishing service.

   a. Using the appropriate queueing model from class, calculate $L$, $W$, $W_q$, $L_q$, $P_0$, $P_1$, and $P_2$ for the current mode of operation. What is the probability of having more than two customers at the checkout stand?
   b. What is the probability that the waiting time before beginning service exceeds 5 minutes, and the probability that the waiting time before finishing service exceeds 7 minutes?
   c. Repeat part a. for the alternative being considered by the manager.
   d. Repeat part b. for this alternative.
   e. Which approach should the manager use to satisfy her criteria as closely as possible?

</div>
</div>
